RFP #056-2026
PART I
DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT AND SERVICES REQUIRED
1.0 INTRODUCTION/DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT/SERVICES:
The objective of this Request for Proposals (“RFP”) is to seek proposals from highly qualified production firms for Commercial
Video Production for Springfield-Branson National Airport (SFG). Such a program will work with the SGF Marketing Team create
a commercial concept centered around “Simply Good Flying,” reflecting the ease of travel and nonstop options at Springfield-
Branson National Airport.
1.1 DESCRIPTION OF OPERATIONS:
SGF is a publicly owned airport in Springfield, a city in Greene County, Missouri. The city is roughly one hundred and ninety
(190) miles southwest of St. Louis and one hundred and fifty (150) miles southeast of Kansas City.
Springfield is the third largest city in the state of Missouri, with an MSA population exceeding 481,483 and a city population
of approximately 169,000.
SGF is owned by the city of Springfield and is managed by an eleven (11) member administrative board.
The Springfield MSA has a long-standing record of economic growth:
• Springfield’s gross metro product has grown more than fifty percent (50%) in the last decade.
• Springfield is the economic hub of an area that spans twenty-seven (27) counties in Missouri and Arkansas and includes
more than one million people. 1,603,531 live within a 90-minute drive of the airport.
• The Springfield metro workforce has an annual growth rate of 5.3%.
• Springfield’s December 2022 unemployment rate of 1.9% is the lowest in the region.
• In 2012, Greene County’s population grew by 14.5%, while neighboring Christian County remains the fastest-growing
county in Missouri, with a growth rate of more than 40%.
SGF is the primary airport for this area and is currently served by three legacy airlines, American, Delta, and United, and
low-cost airline Allegiant Air. These airlines currently provide SGF with an average of fifty (50) daily flights to thirteen (13)
non-stop destinations:
1.2 ALLEGIANT:
• Provides Springfield with non-stop service to:
o Gulf Shores (GUF)
o Las Vegas (LAS)
o Phoenix (IWA)
o Orlando (SFB)
o Tampa (PIE)
o Punta Gorda (PGD)
o Ft. Walton Beach (VPS)
1.3 AMERICAN:
• Provides Springfield with non-stop service to:
o Dallas (DFW)
o Chicago (ORD)
o Charlotte (CLT)
o Phoenix Sky Harbor (PHX)
1.4 DELTA:
• Provides Springfield with non-stop service to:
o Atlanta (ATL)
Page 5 of 41
Revised: 02/04/2026
Reviewed by Law: 03/06/2024RFP #056-2026
1.5 UNITED:
• Provides Springfield with non-stop service to:
o Denver (DEN)
o Chicago (ORD)
o Houston (IAH)
Passenger numbers at SGF have very nearly recovered from the pandemic downturn. The total passenger count for 2025 was 1.55
million. This was the third straight year of record-breaking passenger numbers at Springfield-Branson National Airport. SGF expects
to have another record-breaking year in 2026.
2.0 SCOPE OF SERVICES
2.1 The commercials will be shot entirely in Springfield and the Springfield-Branson National Airport.
2.2 The Video Production Team will provide all equipment, actors, and technical crew to film and edit final commercials
2.3 The Video Production Team will create a :15, :30, and :60 second commercial, in both horizontal and vertical formats
2.4 The Video Production Team will work with the SGF Marketing Team to finalize a script of a commercial concept around
“Simply Good Flying, “reflecting the ease of travel and nonstop options at Springfield-Branson National Airport
2.5 The commercial will be used in traditional broadcast media formats, as well as OTT and social media advertising campaigns
in Q4 of 2026 and beyond.
2.6 Anticipated filming date for the commercial is early July of 2026.
2.7 The film files of the commercial advertisement should be delivered no later than August 1, 2026.
2.8 The total budget for commercial video production is $50,000.00
3.0 CITY PROVIDED SERVICES:
Video production in the airport is a unique environment, but the SFG Marketing Team will support the chosen firm with pre-
production and day of security clearances in a secure environment.
4.0 ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS: If applicable, any additional agreement(s)/contract(s) proposed by the Offeror shall be included
with the Offeror’s proposal as an attachment and may become exhibits of an ensuing City contract.
5.0 TIMELINE FOR THE REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL (RFP) PROCESS: The tentative timeline listed below is the City’s estimation of time
required to complete the RFP process. All efforts shall be made to abide by this schedule, but it may change due to different
circumstances.
Post RFP Notification Tuesday, March 3, 2026, at 3 :00 P.M. (CST)
Preproposal Meeting Tuesday, March 10, 2026, at 11 :00 A.M. (CST)
Question Cutoff date Tuesday, March 24, 2026, at 3:00 P.M. (CST)
Receive Proposals Tuesday, March 31, 2026, at 3:00 P.M. (CST)
Meet to review Week of April 6, 2026
Page 6 of 41
Revised: 02/04/2026
Reviewed by Law: 03/06/2024RFP #056-2026
PART II
STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS AND CONDITIONS OF REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL
1.0 PREPARATION OF PROPOSALS:
1.1 By submitting a proposal, the Offeror certifies that he has fully read and understands the proposal method and has full
knowledge of the scope, nature, and quality of the work to be performed.
1.2 All proposals submitted shall be binding for one hundred twenty (120) calendar days following the opening.
1.3 The City of Springfield does not pay federal excise and sales tax on direct purchases of tangible personal property. Missouri
tax ID #12493651.
2.0 SUBMISSION OF PROPOSALS:
A proposal submitted by an Offeror must (1) be manually, electronically, or digitally signed by the authorized agent of the Offeror
on the Division of Purchases Request For Proposal (RFP) Affidavit of Compliance form; (2) contain all information required by the
RFP; (3) be priced as required; (4) be uploaded into the City’s e-bidding service provider, Euna OpenBids (formerly DemandStar),
no later than the exact time and date specified in this RFP via the following link:
https://www.demandstar.com/supplier/bids/agency_inc/bid_list.asp?f=search&mi=548029
(5) include a security deposit if one is required.
2.1 Incurred Expenses: The City is not responsible for any expenses that Offerors may incur in preparing and submitting
proposals called for in this Request for Proposal.
2.2 Late Proposals: Proposals received by the City after the time specified for receipt will not be considered. Offerors shall
assume full responsibility for the timely uploading of the proposals to the location designated for receipt of proposals. All
proposals will be received at the time and place specified and made available for public inspection when a fully executed
contract is in place.
2.3 Completeness: All information required by the Request for Proposal must be supplied to constitute a responsive proposal.
The City of Springfield reserves the right to use any and all information presented in any response to the Request for
Proposal. Acceptance or rejection of the RFP does not affect this right. Offerors are to submit all pages of this RFP identified
with “RETURN THIS PAGE” stated on the bottom right corner of said pages. Failure to do so may render your proposal
non-responsive.
2.4 Errors in Submittals: Offerors or their authorized representatives are expected to fully inform themselves as to the
conditions, requirements, and specifications of this solicitation before submitting their proposals; failure to do so will be at
the Offerors’ own risk. In case of an error in the extension of prices in the proposal, the unit price shall govern. Said unit
price shall be utilized by the City to calculate the correct extended price for determining the potential award.
3.0 LEGAL NAME AND SIGNATURE: Proposals shall clearly indicate the legal name, address, e-mail address, and telephone number
of the Offeror (company, firm, corporation, partnership, or individual). The Offerors’ legal company name must be identified as
the SAME on their submitted W-9 and Certificate of Insurance (COI). Proposals may be manually, electronically, or digitally signed
above the printed name and title of the signer on the Affidavit of Compliance page. The signer shall have the authority to legally
bind the company to the submitted proposal. Failure to properly sign the TITLE-SIGNATURE PAGE shall invalidate same, and it
shall not be considered for award.
4.0 MODIFICATIONS, CORRECTIONS, OR WITHDRAWAL OF PROPOSALS:
4.1 A proposal may only be withdrawn by the following method prior to the official opening date and time specified:
4.1.1 A proposal may be withdrawn via e-mail to the buyer identified on page one of this document, by the Offeror or
its’ authorized representative.
Page 7 of 41
Revised: 02/04/2026
Reviewed by Law: 03/06/2024RFP #056-2026
4.2 A proposal may only be modified by the following method prior to the official opening date and time specified:
4.2.1 A proposal that has already been uploaded may be modified by uploading another proposal and identify
“MODIFICATION” on your proposal submittal.
4.3 All modified proposals shall not be opened until the official opening date and time to preserve the integrity of the RFP
process. Telephone or electronic requests to modify a proposal/solicitation shall not be honored. No modification or
withdrawal of any response will be permitted after the RFP specified official opening date and time.
5.0 CLARIFICATION AND ADDENDA:
5.1 Each Offeror shall examine the Request for Proposal documents and shall judge all matters relating to the adequacy and
accuracy of such documents. Any inquiries or suggestions concerning interpretation, clarification, or additional information
pertaining to the Request for Proposal shall be made through the Division of Purchases in writing. The Division of Purchases
shall not be responsible for oral interpretations given by any City employee, representative, or others. The issuance of
written addenda is the official method whereby interpretation, clarification, or additional information can be given. Receipt
of an addendum to an RFP by an Offeror must be acknowledged by signing and uploading the addendum with your proposal
to https://www.demandstar.com/supplier/bids/agency_inc/bid_list.asp?f=search&mi=548029 prior to the opening time
and date.
5.2 It shall be the responsibility of each Offeror, prior to submitting their proposal, to check the Division of Purchases e-bidding
service Euna OpenBids (formerly DemandStar) at:
https://www.demandstar.com/supplier/bids/agency_inc/bid_list.asp?f=search&mi=548029 to determine if addenda were
issued and to make such addenda a part of their proposal.
6.0 RESPONSIVE AND RESPONSIBLE OFFEROR: To be considered a responsive Offeror, the Offeror shall submit a proposal that meets
the minimum requirements set forth in the Request for Proposal. To be a responsible Offeror, the Offeror shall have the capability
in all respects to perform fully the minimum requirements, and the tenacity, perseverance, experience, integrity, reliability,
capacity, facilities, equipment, and credit that will ensure good faith performance.
7.0 RESERVED RIGHTS:
7.1 The City reserves the right to make such investigations as it deems necessary to determine the Offeror’s responsiveness
and responsibility. Such information may include but should not be limited to current financial statements, verification of
availability of equipment and personnel, past performance records, and any additional documentation as deemed
necessary by the City.
7.2 The City reserves the right to reject any and all proposals, to waive technical defects, and to select the proposal(s) deemed
most advantageous to the City.
8.0 THE RIGHT TO AUDIT: The Offeror agrees to furnish supporting detail as may be required by the City to support charges or
invoices, to make available for audit purposes all records covering charges pertinent to the purchase, and to make appropriate
adjustments in the event discrepancies are found. The cost of any audit will be paid by the City. The City shall have the right to
audit the Offeror’s records pertaining to the work/product for a period of three (3) years after final payment.
9.0 RIGHT TO PROTEST:
9.1 Appeals and remedies are provided for in the Springfield City Code and Purchasing Policy. Protestors shall seek resolution
of their complaints with the City Purchasing Agent.
9.2 Any protest shall state the basis upon which the solicitation or award is contested and shall be submitted within thirty (30)
calendar days after such aggrieved person knew or could have reasonably been expected to know of the facts giving rise
thereto.
Page 8 of 41
Revised: 02/04/2026
Reviewed by Law: 03/06/2024
